Imagine yourself as 
a reader. Picture a wr
itten (typed)
page (typically about 300 words).
If there are no paragraph breaks at all,
that means the reader needs to read through an entire page w
ithout a break. That’s a problem.
There’s no fixed rule for how
many paragraphs (or how long each paragraph should be). But definitely less th
an 300 words per paragraph, and likely much shorter 
(like 150–200). That way you
’re also mo
re likely to be sure that each paragraph has
an actual to
pic, rather than just a rambling set of ideas!
Egypt
grew along the River Nil
e and was at its most pow
erful in the second millennium BC. Its land went from th
e Nile delta to Nubia, a kingdom which tod
ay is mostly in the Sudan.
For most of its history, Eg
ypt was prosperous, since the water f
rom the Nile made sure that the Egyptians w
ould have good crops. Crops 
were grown after the Nile flood water went down.
The Egyptians created a 
way of writing using hi
eroglyphs, built huge temples and tombs, tr
aded with other areas, a
nd had a powerful army. Their religion had many 
, and its priests were powerful and rich. T
heir rulers, called Pharaohs, were thought to be cl
ose to the gods.
Ancient Egypt was split up into
many different districts called sepats. The first divisions were 
created during the Predynastic Period, but then, they were small city-st
ates that ruled themselv
es. When the first pharaoh came to power, the sepats remained and were much like the cou
nties in many countries 
today. They stayed basically the same for a l
ong time – there were 42 of them, and each was ruled by a governor chosen b
y the 
pharaoh. In l
ater years the districts were called nomes and the governor was called a nomarch
Ancient Egypt had a lot of different taxes, but
there was no
real money, so people paid each other with goods or wor
k. The person who watched the tax
collection was a scribe, and every tax collector in Egypt had to
tell him every day how many taxes they 
had collected. Each person paid different taxes based on the
work that they did: craftsmen paid in goods, hunters and
fishermen paid with food, and every single household in the cou
ntry had to pay a labour tax every
year by helping with work for the country like m
ining or for canals. A lot of rich Egyptians paid 
poorer people to do this for them.
The language can be divided into six ti
me periods:
Archaic Egyptian (before 3000 BC). This language wa
s found on carvings on pottery.
Old Egyptian 
(3000 BC to 2000 BC). This language was used during the Ol
d Kingdom and First Intermediate Period. It was found in py
ramids, or Egyptian tombs, and was the first version of the language that had p
ural tense, which shows that there was more than one object being talked about.
Middle Egyptian (2000 BC to 1300 BC). This language is call
ed Classic Egyptian. It is found all over objects and tomb
s in Egypt, including Egyptian coffins. Books on science and society were written du
ring this time, and a lot of the things we know about religion of the time ar
e written in Classic Egyptian. Even after p
eople stopped speaking this kind of Egyptian, writers still used it when they w
rote books.
Late Egyptian (1300 BC to 700 BC). This is the language o
f the New Kingdom, which was the best time in Egypt's history. There was 
a lot of knowledge being shared during this time, so we have a lot of very old b
ooks that were written in Late Egyptia
n. Man
y people believe that this
version of the language 
was much like what Egyptians spoke.
Demotic Egyptian (700 
BC to 400 AD)
Coptic Egyptian (300 AD t
o 1700 AD)
Demotic script
The script used by ordinary p
eople. A new form of writing, Demotic, bec
ame the main writing style. It is this form of writing – and forma
l hieroglyphs – which accompanies the Greek text on the Rosetta Stone.
Coptic script
The Coptic script is a modified Greek a
lphabet. The Coptic language is the last stage of the Egyptian 
language (modern Egyptians speak a dialect of Arabic).
Literature
Some ancient Egyptian literature has survived to the pre
sent day. There are teaching texts, such as the Maxims of 
Ptahhotep, the Instruction
s of Amenemope, and the Ebers papyrus. The Ebers papyrus is o
ne of the earliest medical texts ever foun
d. There are also poems and stories.
The story of Sinuhe
An Ancient Egyptian m
urder mystery written around 1800 BC.
Ipuwer papyrus
A poem about the ruin
of Egyptian society--some think it is a
bout the story in Exodus, a book in the Jewish/Christian
Bible.
Westcar papyrus
A series of stories about the Pharaoh Khufu to
d by his sons.
Papyrus Harris I
The longest papyru
s ever found in Egypt.
Story of Wenamun
An ancient adventure story ab
out a priest who goes to collect gif
ts from a king.
d seeds in the fields, which were irrigated wi
th ditches and canals. Egypt received little rainfall, so farmers rel
ied on the Nile to water their crops
.[7]p514 From March to May, farmers used sickles to harvest th
eir crops, which were then threshed with a flail to sep
arate the straw from the grain
. Winnowing removed the chaff from the grain, and the grain was then ground into flou
r, brewed to make beer, or stored for later use.[7]p506
The rich fertile soil came from annual inundations of the Nile River. The ancient Egyptians were thus abl
e to produce an abundance
of food, allowing the population to devote more time and resources to cultural, techn
ological, and artistic pursuits. In ancient Egypt taxes were assessed based on the amount of land a person owned.[6]
Frming in Egypt was dependent on the cycle of the Nile 
River. The Egyptians recognized three seasons: Akhet (flooding), Peret (plantin
), and Shemu (harvesting). The flooding season lasted from June to September, depositing on the river's
banks a layer of mine
ral-rich silt ideal for growing crops. After the floodwaters had receded, the growing season lasted from Octob
er to February. Farmers plowe
d and planted seeds in the fields, which were irrigated with ditches and canals. Egypt received lit
tle rainfall, so farmers relied on the Nile to water their 
crops.[7]p514 From March to May, farmers used sickles to harvest their crops, which were then thre
shed with a flail to separate the straw from the grain. Winno
wing removed the chaff from the grain, and the grain was then ground into flour, brewed to make 
beer, or stored for later use.[7]p506
Sennedjem plows 
his fields with a pair of oxen, used as beasts of burden and a source of food.
Fla
x plants were grown for 
the fibers of their stems. These fibers were spli
t along their length and spun into thread, which was used 
to weave sheets of linen and to make clothing. Papyrus gr
owing on the banks of the Nile River was used to make paper. Vegeta
bles and fruits were grown in garden plots, close to habitations and on higher ground
, and had to be watered by hand. Vegetables included leeks, garlic, melons, squashes,
pulses, lettuce
, and other crops, in addition to grapes that were made into wine.[7]p577; 630
Most animals
were kept as food. Some animals were kept 
as pets. All kinds of animals were important to Egypt. Ancient Egyptians understood the animals.
Animals they kept were goats, pigs, ducks, cows and geese.